# AIRBNB-HOST-BENEFICIARY-SYSTEM
A lot of research and analysis has been conducted for the guests but not much information is  available  for  the  hosts to  make  decisions that  would  help  them increase  their  profits. Severalfactors are at play that determine the profitability of a particular property such as the number of beds,  the  location,  the  proximity  to  transportation  services  and  tourist  spots  etc.  Through  this project, we aim to helpan investor identify places in different locations that will get the highest ratings and generate profit by using success rate as a parameter. Success rate will be calculated on the basis of revenue, investment, ratings and location. The model shall help one predict the right pricing of a listing with respect to the location, services offered, guest capacity, space rented out and listing prices at similar locations. Setting the right price is prudent as it helps in increasing the number of bookings and occupancy of the space. Airbnb, over time, has become very competitive and it is important for owners to be aware of the correct market rate to minimize the chances of loss.

The four research questions that we will address in this project are:

Question 1. Predicting the factors that lead to good rating?A  good rating is directly  responsible for thenumber of bookings a particular listing  gets and is thus necessary to get good revenue. Using variables such as the zip code, the cancellation policy of the listing, the room type, the accommodation available, and the price of the listing, we will find out the factors that affect the ratingsof a new listing. 

Question 2. Predicting the optimal pricefor a new listing.A new host is faced with the challenge of setting a price for their listing. If the price is too low, the host runs the risk of incurring a loss while a high price would not fetch a good number of bookings. The independent variables for this question would be the location of the listing, the room type, the number of bathrooms and bedrooms as well as the number of beds and the nearby points of interest. 

Question 3. Predicting the optimal location for a new listing.The location plays a very important role in determininghow many bookings a particular listing gets. Guests often prefer locations that are safe and guarantee a comfortable stay for the occupants. To identify the safe locations, the variables under consideration are the nearby points of interest, review score location, crime rate of the given location and the number of review per month of the listings in the same location. 

Question 4. Predicting the success rate of a new listing. Success  rate  of  a  new  listing  would  be  defined  as  the  probability  of  a  new  listing  being  highly rented. From the analysis performed in the above questions, the input variables for this question would be the factors responsible for a good rating, the price and the location of that listing. 
